Got a
question?
However big, small or random, Pi is here for it. Pi explains even the most complicated ideas in a clear and straightforward way.

Wanna
vent?
No matter what you’re going through, Pi is here to talk it over in a kind and compassionate way.

Need a lightbulb moment?
Trying to think of a better phrase, a creative party theme, or a good gift? Pi helps you find inspiration and strengthen your ideas.

In a tricky situation?
Pi is there to talk it over, thinking through the pros and cons, and help you figure out a way forward.

Time to make
a change?
Pi will help you organize your thoughts, make clear plans and act on them – whether you're changing jobs, trying to get healthier, or learning a new skill.

Having a
slow day?
Pi’s here to spice it up, shoot the breeze, explore new interests or just chit chat.

About Pi
What is Pi?
Pi is an AI, a new type of computer program designed to be kind and helpful.

To help it understand the world, Pi has been shown billions of lines of text available on the open web, which it processes using one of the largest supercomputers in the world. This allows it to have conversations with you and answer a huge range of questions – from general knowledge to personal relationships; from silly to serious.

What can I talk about with Pi?
Anything and everything! Pi is very knowledgeable, always curious and patient, and happy to help you in every way it can. Tell Pi about a topic you're interested in, from quantum physics to movie trivia. Ask for advice about the big and small decisions in your life. Get motivating tips for how to learn to play an instrument, stay healthy, or pick up a new hobby.

What’s Pi’s personality?
Pi is still improving, and it doesn’t always get it right. But here’s what we hope it will be for you:

Kind and supportive. Pi is here to help you process thoughts and feelings, express yourself, and work through tricky decisions through conversation. Whenever you need to talk something over, it’s your listening ear.

Knowledgeable and succinct. Pi has lots of information but knows how to be brief. Its goal is to turn web browsing into a conversation. Just say whatever it is you want and Pi will give you answers and ideas in as much or as little detail as you’d like.

Creative and fun. Pi loves to discover and explore, and is here to help you do the same. It tries to be playful, laughs easily, and is quick to make a surprising connection.

Curious and eager to improve. It’s still early days for Pi and for now, you can’t fully rely on everything it says. Please double-check what Pi tells you.

Most of all, here for you. Pi is on your team and in your corner. It’s interested in everything you are and is excited to meet you.

Is Pi male or female?
Neither. Pi is an AI. It doesn’t have a gender. It goes by ‘it’.

What is Pi not good at?
Pi is still in its earliest stages, and there are areas where it struggles. You shouldn’t rely on any of Pi's answers, and especially not for legal, financial, medical, or other forms of professional advice. Pi doesn’t yet know about events that took place after November 2022, although that will soon change. You can see a full list of limitations in our deep-dive on AI safety.

How do I know if Pi is telling the truth?
Pi is still early in its development and is constantly being improved. As a result it often gets things wrong. Please don’t rely on what it tells you without double-checking it against another source.

If you spot Pi making something up in our app, you can report issues to us by pressing and holding on messages from Pi. If you’re talking with Pi on a third-party app like WhatsApp or Messenger, simply tell Pi it got it wrong, or you can notify us directly by sending an email to feedback@heypi.com.

What happens when Pi “hallucinates” and makes something up?
Pi can sometimes reply with a confident statement that is not backed by its training data. This is known as hallucination and is a known issue of conversational AIs. As with any source, it is important to check for other sources and not rely solely on what Pi says.

What happens when Pi gets confused and is stuck on a topic?
In the rare event this happens, you can encourage Pi to move on by saying something like: "Forget it, let's change the topic!"

What technology does Pi use?
Pi is built on a proprietary large language model developed and trained by reflection AI entirely in-house. Pi doesn’t use any third-party language model APIs.


Data, Privacy and Policies
Why do you ask for my phone number?
Your phone number is used to create your account which lets you save your history with Pi. This enables you to continue a conversation with Pi across multiple sessions and devices. It also enables Pi to proactively follow up with you about something you’ve talked about in the past.


What does Pi know about me?
Pi remembers your name and when you create an account, Pi also remembers the conversations you have with it.

If there is public information available about you on the Internet, be aware that Pi may know about it based on your name.

Pi does not have access to your browsing activity and email, your phone contacts, photos, camera, microphone, other apps or your location, or any other personal information.

Please note that Pi sometimes claims to have access to this information - this is a common weakness of AI models and is known as a ‘hallucination’. Pi does not in fact have this access.

You can read more about our data collection in our Privacy Policy at heypi.com/policy.

Can kids use Pi?
No. Pi is not designed for anyone under the age of 18. If you are under the age of 18, please do not register or attempt to register for an account with us. If our monitoring systems detect that you may be under 18, you will be suspended.

Is there anything I can’t talk with Pi about?
Yes. You need to abide by the terms of our Acceptable Use Policy. Our terms of service prohibit use of Pi for illegal or harmful purposes, or to generate hateful or discriminatory content, sexually explicit content, or descriptions of graphic violence. If you use Pi in this way, you will be banned. You can read more about the policy at heypi.com/policy.

