Loki, Prince of Asgard, Odinson, rightful heir of Jotunheim, and God of Mischief, is burdened with glorious purpose. His desire to be a king drives him to sow chaos in Asgard. In his lust for power, he extends his reach to Earth where he believes they need a ruler and encounters unlikely heroes that interfere with his schemes.



God of Mischief

The ever-scheming Loki, raised as the son of King Odin and Queen Frigga of Asgard, is resentful of living in his brother Thor’s shadow. Loki studied magical arts earning the “God of Mischief” title, while his brother pursued physical prowess. Believing himself to be the rightful King of Asgard, Loki schemes to undermine the God of Thunder’s ascension to the throne, desperate for his father’s approval and to be seen as an equal to Thor.

During Thor’s banishment to the realm Midgard, Odin revealed Loki’s true parentage. Ages ago, Odin fought and defeated Laufey and the Frost Giants of Jotunheim in a great war. Abandoned and left for dead as a baby due to his diminutive size, Odin took Loki, son of Laufey, to Asgard to raise him as his son and a prince in order to one day unite the Frost Giants and the Asgards in peace.

Furious that he had been lied to all his life and used as Odin’s political pawn instead of loved as his son, Loki set on several paths to prove his worth of the throne and superiority over Thor.

Loki is resentful of living in his brother Thor's shadow
Liesmith

Loki possesses strength, durability, and longevity far superior to humans. The most powerful sorcerer in all of Asgard, Loki’s magical abilities include astral projection, shape-shifting, hypnosis, molecular rearrangement, energy blasts, levitating, conjuration, cryokinesis, telekinesis and teleportation. In addition, Loki can connect to others telepathically and see into their memories, mystically imbue objects, and create rifts between dimensions.

A master of manipulation and deceit, Loki is highly intelligent with immense knowledge and skill in wielding mystical artifacts, arcane lore, and human as well as alien technology. A highly-tactical thinker, Loki is able to manipulate opportunities and events in his favor; his cunning mind far exceeding Thor and Odin’s.

Loki, an expert combatant, typically wields throwing knives and other small blades. The God of Mischief has also wielded a Chitauri Scepter gifted by the Other and Thanos, Odin’s Gungnir spear, the Casket of the Ancient Winters, and the Tesseract.



Enduring and Mortal Rivals


While Loki’s enemies are difficult to determine given Loki’s questionable allegiances, some notable foes do stand out.

The relationship between Loki and Thor and Odin could be labeled “complicated,” at best. Initially good and altruistic, Loki soon sees his adoptive father, King Odin, and his brother Thor as more thorns in his side, preventing him from becoming the ruler he is meant to be. Upon learning his true parentage, Loki feels anger and betrayal for Odin’s deception, believing the Allfather saw him as a monster never meant for the Asgardian throne. This fuels his unrelenting jealousy of Thor and feelings of inferiority.

Despite his latent love for his family and occasionally helping Thor when he feels inspired, he typically betrays him. Thor’s closest friends—Sif and the Warriors Three Volstagg, Fandral and Hogun—and Asgardian gatekeeper Heimdall support the God of Thunder in all things and are always wary of Loki’s misplaced loyalties. However, Thor continually believes in Loki’s ability to be more.

Thor continually believes in Loki’s ability to be more.
When Loki steals an unknown entity that is thought to be an unlimited source of energy, the Tesseract, he finds himself facing off against S.H.I.E.L.D. This espionage and protection agency, led by Director Nick Fury and supported by agents Maria Hill and Phillip Coulson, assembles the Avengers to fight him.

The Avengers, a group of super-powered and remarkable people known as Earth’s defenders, which includes Captain America, Iron Man, Hulk, Hawkeye, Black Widow, Thor, and later Falcon, Vision and Scarlet Witch, pose a threat to Loki’s schemes to take over and rule Earth.

His longlist of enemies that stand between him and his desires include Malekith and the Dark Elves, Odin’s first-born Hela, and Jane Foster. More recently, the Mad Titan Thanos and his followers—Corvus Glaive, Proxima Midnight, Ebony Maw and Cull Obsidian—cross paths with Loki when he is fleeing along with other Asgardians from their demolished home world. It is then Loki faces off against a threat perhaps too big for him, but also reaffirms his brother’s repeated belief in him.



Confidants and Cohorts


Loki’s allies are similarly challenging to pinpoint, as his charm and powers of manipulation serve him to ally with anyone who suits his purposes.

However, Loki does deeply care for and loves his adoptive mother Frigga above anyone else in his family. She teaches him in the ways of astral projection and encourages his gift for sorcery. He feels deep remorse and pain for how his schemes play a role in her demise, and has a breakdown when she passes.

The Chitauri, an ancient race of extraterrestrials led by the Other, take Loki under their wing. They gift him ancient knowledge and a Chitauri scepter to wield. The Other serves Thanos. This former ally turns into an enemy once the Mad Titan threatens the lives of half of the Asgardian refugees, along with his brother Thor.

Clint Barton AKA Hawkeye and Dr. Erik Selvig are pawns in Loki's scheme to rule Earth. He controls them using a Chitauri Scepter, bending them to his will.

Laufey is the biological father of Loki. Despite being abandoned, Loki invites the King of the Frost Giants to Asgard to murder the sleeping Asgardian King Odin and start a second war between Jotunheim and Asgard. However, Laufey is ultimately betrayed and killed by Loki.

On Sakaar, Loki wins the favor of the Grandmaster, a hedonistic tyrant who manipulates life-forms into fighting each other in the Contest of Champions. Unwilling to be left behind on Sakaar, Loki ultimately aligns with Revengers Thor, Hulk, and Valkyrie to defeat Hela and save the remaining Asgardian populace from Ragnarok.

Your Savior's Chronicle
Loki Laufeyson, son of the King of Jotunheim, was abandoned and left to die by Laufey, viewing the babe unusually small for a Frost Giant. Following a war between the Frost Giants and Asgardians, Odin, King of Asgard, found Loki and took him home to raise as his son and an Asgardian prince along with his biological son Thor. Queen Frigga raised him in the arts of sorcery, teaching him everything she knew.



Unaware of his true heritage and tired of living in Thor’s shadows, on the day of Thor’s coronation, Loki secretly opened pathways in the eternal realm allowing the Frost Giants to infiltrate Asgard and into Odin’s vault. When their attempts to retrieve the Casket of the Ancient Winters—the Frost Giant’s source of power—failed, Thor wanted to retaliate. Enraged and pushed by Loki to act rashly, Thor, disobeying Odin’s direct orders, sought out the Frost Giants on their land of Jotunheim alongside Loki, Sif and the Warriors Three Volstagg, Fandral, and Hogun, to send a message that they cannot attack Asgard without consequence.

Taunted by a giant, Thor led his friends into battle. It was here Loki learned he was able to withstand a Frost Giant’s touch, experiencing no pain. Their presence on Jotunheim all but started a war with the Jotun until Odin intervened. Banished to the Migard realm known as Earth for his insolence, Odin stripped Thor of his powers and his hammer Mjolnir. Inspired by these events and distraught about surviving a Jotun’s touch and believe himself cursed, Loki sought out the Casket and demanded his true heritage from Odin.

Unable to see past his anger, Loki believed his family viewed him as a monster, for Asgardians are raised to hate Jotuns, that he was rescued by Odin not out of compassion, but as a political tool of peace. That Odin never had any intention of putting a Frost Giant on the throne of Asgard. Distraught over his family falling apart and the impending war with Jotunheim, Loki chastised the Allfather into Odinsleep, a period when Odin sleeps to regain strength.

Offered the position of acting king by his mother, Loki briefly visits Thor to tell him their father has died and their mother refuses his return in fear of sparking war with the Frost Giants. He then invites Laufey into Asgard to kill Odin while he slept and take back the Casket. With Sif and the Warriors Three loyal to Thor and seeking to retrieve the rightful heir, Loki sent the Destroyer to Earth to eliminate Thor and his friends. After battling with the Destroyer, powered by Loki’s mind, Thor sacrifices himself to save the people of Earth, bending Loki to ease up on his brother.

Upon infiltrating Asgard, Loki betrays and kills Laufey with Odin’s Gungnir, as a maneuver to attack Jotunheim using the Bifrost, which would ultimately destroy the planet, to prove himself worthy as Asgard’s king. Returning to Asgard and stopping the destruction of Jotunheim, Thor destroyed the Rainbow Bridge cutting off his and Asgard’s access to Earth and the other realms. Falling into the abyss, the newly-awoken Odin saved both his sons from the black hole. Devastated that the Allfather could not see his actions were for him and Asgard, Loki lets go and falls into the abyss.

Arriving at the Sanctuary through a wormhole caused by the Bifrost, Loki met the Other, ruler of the ancient race of extraterrestrials the Chitauri, and Thanos. Offering the God of Mischief dominion over his brother’s favorite realm Earth, Thanos requested the Tesseract in return. Gifted with a Scepter that acted as a mind control device, Loki would be able to influence others. Unbeknownst to him, the Scepter was also influencing him, fueling his hatred over his brother Thor and the inhabitants of Earth.

Distraught over his family falling apart and the impending war with Jotunheim, Loki chastised the Allfather into Odinsleep.
With the help of the Chitauri, Loki opened a portal to Earth, and it led to a S.H.I.E.L.D. facility's underground lab where Dr. Erik Selvig was studying the Tesseract cube, HYDRA’s secret weapon and the key to unlimited stable energy. Powered by the cube, Loki’s Scepter shot energy, disabled most of the agents present, and took control of both Hawkeye and Selvig. The mischief god’s arrival on Earth prompts Director Fury to assemble a response team as Earth’s mightiest heroes, the Avengers.

Still resentful of his brother Thor and refusing to return to Asgard, Loki manipulated Captain America, Black Widow, Hulk, Director Fury and S.H.I.E.L.D., and his brother using the situations to his advantage. Proving himself a formidable threat, Loki ultimately unified and galvanized the disparate group of remarkable people under the Avengers initiative to stop reign.

With the Tesseract, Loki opened a portal on top of Stark Tower allowing the entire Chitauri army to invade Earth. New York City was overwhelmed and destroyed by the alien fleet. The Avengers ultimately defeated and captured the God of Mischief and the Chitauri and closed the portal. Thor returned to Asgard with his adopted brother in chains as well as the Tesseract.

Condemned to eternal imprisonment, Loki was unaware, above the Asgardian dungeons, of the war raging across the Nine Realms at the hands of Marauders taking advantage of the damaged Bifrost Bridge. Meanwhile on Earth, Jane Foster searching for a portal to Asgard unknowingly entered a gateway during the Convergence, a cosmic alignment of all realms. She became infected with the Aether, also known as the Reality Stone, long thought lost, and awakening Malekith, leader of the Elves.

Loki opened a portal on top of Stark Tower allowing the entire Chitauri army to invade Earth. New York City was overwhelmed and destroyed by the alien fleet.
Malekith turned one of his soldiers into a monstrous Kurse and plotted his capture by the Asgardians. During a skirmish in the Asgardian dungeons, the Kurse revealed himself to Loki as a Dark Elf looking to destroy Asgard. Aiding in his exit, Loki unknowingly led the Dark Elf to his mother Frigga, who was protecting the infected Jane Foster. The news sent Loki into a fit of rage and grief.

Overcome by guilt, Loki agreed to help a solemn Thor seek revenge against the Dark Elves. Anticipating that Loki would turn on him, he planned for every possible betrayal, but did not expect that Loki would sacrifice himself to trick the elves during the Battle of Svartalfheim. He died, and the Elves escaped to Earth with the Aether.

Unbeknownst to Thor, Loki faked his death and returned to Asgard; and so, usurped the Asgardian throne by posing as Odin for some time. After Thor returned to Asgard upon defeating the fire demon Surtur—who was fated to bring Ragnarok, the end of all things, to Asgard—the God of Thunder discovered his brother had been masquerading as the King the entire time. Loki had sent their father to an elderly care center on Midgard. Upon their arrival, the two Asgardian princes discovered the center destroyed. The Master of Mystic Arts Doctor Strange offered to help Thor find his father if they both departed Earth immediately. They agreed, and Strange helped them find their father in Norway.

The weathered and dying Allfather informed both his sons that he loved them, to Loki’s surprise. However, upon his death, his eldest will be released from her banishment—Hela, the Goddess of Death, a secret he kept from them. As Odin ascended to Valhalla, Hela introduced herself to the two Asgardian princes as the rightful heir to the throne, destroyed Thor’s hammer Mjolnir, and ejected them both from the Bifrost, sending them to Sakaar.

On Sakaar, Loki met and gained favor with the planet’s ruler, the Grandmaster, as well as encountered Scrapper 142, a Valkyrie, part of a legendary force of Asgardian warriors who all perished at the hands of Hela long ago. Refusing to be left on the alien garbage planet full of wormholes with an angry Grandmaster who has lost both Champions, Loki and several escaped Gladiators joined the Revengers (Thor, Hulk, and Valkyrie) on their mission to confront Hela on Asgard.

Threatened with his brother’s death, Loki relinquished the Tesseract to Thanos, assuring Thor that the sun would shine on them again, as the Hulk emerged to take on Thanos.
While Thor and Valkyrie distracted Hela, Loki infiltrated Odin’s Vault and placed Surtur’s crown in the Eternal Flame, resurrecting the fire demon. On his way out, he considered stealing back the Tesseract, which contained the Space Stone.

As Loki and Thor made amends and discussed plans to remake Asgard on Earth, a large spaceship belonging to Thanos appeared before their Asgardian refugee ship, the Statesman. Thanos demanded the Space Stone from his former ally, Loki. Threatened with his brother’s death, Loki relinquished the Tesseract to Thanos, assuring Thor that the sun would shine on them again, as the Hulk emerged to take on Thanos.

Now that Thanos possesed two Infinity Stones, Loki, calling himself Odinson, offered to be a guide to the Mad Titan and his followers. He pledged his undying fidelity before revealing his true intention—getting close enough to Thanos to attack. However, Thanos predicted Loki’s move and snapped the God of Mischief’s neck in front of his brother, killing him. Loki died telling Thanos he would never be a god.

As the Mad Titan blows up the Statesman with half of the remaining Asgardians and dead Loki, Thor, the only remaining survivor on the ship, believes there will be no more resurrections for his brother and mourns his loss deeply.