Equipment
Batsuit: The costume Batman wears is composed of Kevlar and a small percentage of titanium; it's bullet-proof and resistant to various types of attack (explosions, impacts, falls, among others). Bruce later upgraded the suit to be made of an unknown synthetic polymer stronger than Kevlar that he designed. It is also flame-retardant and insulated. The gloves and the boots are reinforced to rebound the impact of punches and kicks. The gloves have some metallic blades on their sides. The cape is super-light, and it can be used to glide. The mask has a small percentage of lead, which shields Batman's face from X-ray powers or X-ray technology, and incorporates an infrared and night vision viewer, auditory sensors and a sonar. The mask is accessorized with some security systems (aggravating gas, electric blasts, etc.) like the utility belt, and also integrates an audio and video transmitter receiver device. The Batsuit can withstand temperatures of atmospheric re-entry (1477° C/2691° F) and can absorb energy and redirect it back at his opponents.
Utility Belt: Batman keeps most of his personal field equipment in a signature piece of apparel, a yellow utility belt. The utility belt has a button to call the Batmobile, and a command for teleportation. Over the years it has contained items such as plastic explosives, nerve toxins, batarangs, smoke bombs, a fingerprint kit, a cutting tool, a grappling hook gun, torches, and a "re-breather" breathing device. Superman entrusted Batman with a ring made of kryptonite, to be used should the Man of Steel ever need to be reined in (due to being mind-controlled by a villain, etc.). The kryptonite ring is contained in a lead pocket, in order to shield Batman from its radiations. Along with a portable EMP, the belt also has its own automatic security systems preventing outside users from accessing it. The belt even houses a portable spherical device that can scan technology, levitate and identify magic. It has been counted that 42 sets of items, covers at least 30 percent of how much the Utility Belt can carry; meaning that the average belt can carry at least 140 sets of items.
Hellbat: Making its first appearance in Batman and Robin Vol 2 issue 33, this suit is one of the three most powerful suits that Batman has ever used. Made for the battle, for the most extreme situations, due to Batman not having powers of his own. Although he couldn't originally access this suit by himself, without the permission from the rest of the Justice League. Batman now has full access to the suit and can summon it to him whenever he wants. Powerful enough to contend with a demon that was capable of containing Etrigan, beat down Kalibak and even stalemate Darkseid.
Batcomputer: The central focus of all of Batman's computer-based technology, wired into nearly all of Batman's equipment. Built and manufactured by Batman, Alfred Pennyworth and Lucius Fox. It even possesses security protocols so that only Batman and members of the Bat-Family are allowed to use it. The Batcomputer is capable of initiating commands that involve hacking, scanning, solving, storing and processing any information that Batman or the Batman Family desires. Holding a plethora of cryptic data and information, that even someone like Amanda Waller would find valuable. The communication connection and transitional frequencies can span up to 3,137 million light years. Bruce has even expanded its processing power and other capabilities by adapting a bot root code known as the Genie A.I. into it, including a Mother Box. It can even detect supernatural forces, such as magic energy.
Genie A.I.
EMP Mask: Batman carries EMP tech that he can use as holographic disguise to morph his face to even his entire body.
Cybernetic Enhancement: Thanks to the efforts of Bruce Wayne of Earth-31, Bruce now possesses a bionic metal hand that he has full functional control over.
Magic Gauntlets: Batman was gifted a pair of magical gauntlets by John Constantine, which allow him to fight non-corporeal beings hand-to-hand, as he did with Gentleman Ghost. Constantine won the gloves in a card game with a demon and gave them to Batman because he "doesn't like fighting with his hands".
Black Lantern Ring (Formerly)
Helmet of Fate (Formerly)

Magic
Eldritch Blast
Flight
Teleportation
Mobius Chair (Formerly)
Transportation
Batboat
Batcycle
Batmobile
Batplane
Bat-Copter

Weapons
Batarangs: His main set of weapons. Some of these bat shaped blades are electrically or sonically charged, while others are explosive. He even carries batarangs that are made of Nth Metal that can disrupt the presence of ghostly entities, magical creatures, and even break enchantments