Abilities:
Acrobatics
Archery
Athletics
Aviation
Business Management
Chemistry
Computer Hacking: Bruce was able to hack and record the mobile frequency of the Suicide Squad members' brain bombs and deactivate them. He can even hack into a Green Lantern Ring and a Apokolyptian computer.
Disguise: Bruce is a master of disguise having been trained by Alfred.
Driving: Bruce was trained by Brazilian criminal, Don Miguel, in tactical driving.
Eidetic Memory: Bruce knows the "Memory Palace Technique", a strategy of memory enhancement that allows him to treat and store memories like a museum. He was taught this technique by Ra's al Ghul.
Escapology
Equestrianism
Forensic Pathology: Bruce is an expert forensic scientist.
Criminology
Mechanical Engineering
Gadgetry
Genius Level Intellect: Batman is considered one of the smartest beings on the planet, alongside Lex Luthor. He possesses a speculator collection of books and is claimed to have read every book in the world.
Hypnosis
Indomitable Will: Although he has no superhuman powers, Batman's unstoppable determination and strength of will make him an extremely formidable opponent. This makes him able to function while tolerating massive amounts of physical pain.
Interrogation
Intimidation: Batman is able to instill great fear into others. His ability to do this was so great, he was capable of wielding a Yellow Power Ring. Sinestro even stated that he considered Batman a worthy member of the Sinestro Corps.
Investigation: Hailed as the World's Greatest Detective, Batman has few equals when it comes to forensic investigations and solving crime mysteries. He is able to use even the smallest clues and slightest details to solve extremely difficult cases and accurately deduce the identity of unknown criminal masterminds. He is capable of observation, forensic investigation, and inductive and deductive reasoning of the highest caliber. Human intuition is an unlearnable trait and one of Batman's most effective tools. Given any mystery, he can arrive at the correct conclusions with a fraction of the data.
Lock Picking: Bruce learned how to pick a lock when he was in grade school. He can pick handcuff locks in a few seconds, and can even pick a lock with his mouth.
Martial Arts: Batman is one of the finest martial artists in the world, having been trained by the best fighters around the world. By most accounts, it took Bruce twelve years to cross the globe, learning how to hit people, find people, and 1,001 other skills before he could become The Bat. In turn, he has also been able to pass on his learnings to his many proteges. Batwoman was able to identify at least fourteen different styles of martial arts from watching Batman fight. Bruce even learned a technique called "language of combat," wherein he can communicate with others while fighting. Thanks to his years of martial arts training, Bruce can identify the martial art that his opponent uses against him and counter nearly any opponent. He is also capable of deducing when opponents are holding back in a fight.
Boxing: Bruce studied boxing during his time at Roxbury Fielding Academy. He was also trained in this fighting style by Wildcat.
Bam Pow: Bruce has also trained in a unique fighting style that he invented to combat the Batman Who Laughs, which Alfred calls "Bam Pow".
Dim Mak: Batman is skilled in this ancient form of martial arts where you strike vital points of the opponent's body causing paralysis, intense and prolonged pain or death. He knows a two-finger nerve strike technique that, if not executed perfectly and with the precise amount of pressure, can easily kill someone.
Ninjitsu
Karate
Krav Maga
Muay Thai
Tae Kwon Do
Wrestling: While weary and suffering from blood loss, Bruce managed to wrestle with a bear.
Stick Fighting: Batman is skilled in multiple stick-based martial arts, having trained the Robins to use bo-staffs.
Medical Science
Meditation
Multilingualism: Batman is fluent in Portuguese, Dhari, Latin,Mandarin,Turkish, Indonesian, Greek, Icelandic, French, Korean, Shanghainese, Spanish, Gaelic, Polish, and Kryptonese. He can also understand American Sign Language, Morse Code, and Argot of the Ancient Sea People.
Occultism: Batman hates magic, but has allowed himself to learn at least a few spells, as a contingency for Superman. He is knowledgeable enough on magic to be able to instantly identify it, stating he can feel the sensation of it. He knows a spell that can expel demons. He even knows a spell that allows him to summon a magical armor form that allows to challenge and beat the likes of Kryptonians.
Peak Human Condition: Through intense training, a specialized diet, and biofeedback treatments, Batman represents the natural pinnacle of human physical prowess. His physical attributes roughly exceeded that of an Olympic level athlete. His strength, speed, stamina, agility, reflexes and coordination are at peak human perfection. He has spent his entire life in pursuit of physical perfection and has attained it through constant intensive training and determination. He can hold his breath underwater for eighteen minutes. Due to his contact with Dionesium, Batman was healed from all trauma and scarring received throughout the years of crime-fighting; enhancing his peak physical prowess to newer heights.
Peak Human Strength: Batman's strength is at the peak of human potential, far beyond that of an ordinary human.
Peak Human Agility
Peak Human Durability
Peak Human Endurance: Bruce barely sleeps and is capable of regularly functioning on as little as two hours of rest in order to operate as Batman.
Peak Human Reflexes
Peak Human Speed: Batman's speed is at the peak of human potential, far beyond that of an ordinary human. Batman's so fast that his punches and kicks are blurs in combat.
Peak Human Senses: Throughout Batman's years of fighting crime and intense training, his senses became so heightened that he can identify magic by feeling it, detect invisible objects, and can even see spirits like Deadman; who remain unseen by normal people. Batman has the best senses in the entire Batman Family, as he was the only one capable of sensing Nightwing's presence when Batgirl, Red Hood, Red Robin, and Alfred Pennyworth couldn't. Not even Orphan was capable of sneaking up on Batman, without him knowing. Bruce even managed to sense the likes of the Flash, approaching behind him at super speed. Bruce has revealed he's capable of sensing Gael Tenclaw's strength, despite the distance between the two of them, even while frozen.
Peak Human Stamina: Thanks to Bruce's training and experience, his stamina and endurance has allowed him to fight for 28 hours straight when he was first starting out. He underwent and survived the Thogal Ritual, where he spent 7 weeks in cave while undergoing a dangerous type of meditation in order to simulate an experience of death and rebirth.
Toxic Immunity: Bruce has acclimated himself to most toxins and poisons.
Precognition: After receiving training from a Mongolian Pastoralist, Bruce learned how to read the environment, to feel the subtle shifts in the Earth, in temperatures and the changing in the wind. He has even had a prophetic dream vision of the future, if Damian ever became Batman.
Leadership: Bruce has experienced leading the Justive League, the Outsiders and the Bat Family.
Pedagogy: Bruce has trained multiple members of the Bat-Family in a wide variety of subjects, including martial arts and investigation.
Prestidigitation: Bruce was taught sleight of hand by Giovanni Zatara.
Robotic Engineering: Batman created the android Failsafe.
Seamanship
Stealth
Swimming
Tactical Analysis
Tracking
Music: Bruce is skilled at guitar.
Ventriloquism
Weaponry
Demolitions
Firearms: Despite his opposition to the use of firearms, Bruce is one of the world's top ten marksmen.
Fencing: Bruce studied fencing during his time at Roxbury Fielding Academy.
Swordsmanship
Throwing: Batman is a master marksman, capable of throwing his batarangs with immense precision.
Other Characteristics
Missing Limb: Due to his battle with the Ghost-Breaker, lead to the unfortunate loss of Bruce's right hand.